2020 was a year of unprecedented change.
The coronavirus pandemic has taken a grim toll
around the world.
In some parts of the world,
the coronavirus is beginning to spread more quickly.
This global pandemic has thrown the world
into a state of uncertainty.
On a global scale, it was unlike anything
Jehovah's People had yet experienced in the 21st century.
Every day life from many of us
has been disrupted in ways we might never have imagined.
We've made dramatic adjustments to our activities
all over the world.
Learn how to use new apps like Skype and Zoom.
What's that?
It changed how we attended meetings,
engaged in the ministry, and visited with friends.
For some of us, this may have been the very first time
we ever held a memorial in our home.
And although attending in smaller groups
may have been even closer to how the memorial
was observed in earlier times,
for most modern-day servants of Jehovah,
this was likely a unique experience.
Then, during the summer,
we enjoyed a full convention program
with talks delivered directly
from governing body members and their helpers.
And in most cases, again,
streamed right into our homes.
Yes, despite the various challenges
and difficulties experienced in 2020,
Jehovah's Organization continued undaunted,
providing the right food at the right time.
But why was this convention unlike any other
in our organization's history?
What were the challenges?
And most important, what had been the benefits?
On March 11th of 2020,
the World Health Organization made the assessment
that COVID-19 could be characterized as a pandemic.
At that point, we had no idea
as to what governments were going to do worldwide.
Would they allow our brothers to meet in kingdom halls?
Would they allow our brothers to meet in large venues?
We had no idea whatsoever.
The governing body approved a letter to all branches
canceling all live conventions worldwide.
And the idea was for us to pre-record a program
that could be used in any location around the world
so that they would at least have the program
of the regional convention.
We wanted to ensure that this spiritual food got out there
to all of our dear brothers and sisters.
More important, we wanted to make certain
that this program went forward because it honors Jehovah.
He's the source of the joy that we have.
So very quickly, speakers were each assigned
two convention ports.
They had to prepare them and it was scheduled
to have all of these talks recorded
during the last two weeks of April.
Giving a talk at an open arena or at a large event,
you have the opportunity of getting feedback
from the audience.
If you say something that impresses the audience
or makes them happy, seeing the smiling faces there,
somehow that really stirs up our presentation
and helps us to make it more lively and meaningful.
But being in the basement of the office building,
looking at a camera with nobody else in the room,
knowing that it's just a couple of persons
recording it in another room,
certainly is a very different way to present a talk.
And Jehovah has allowed us to endure this time of pandemic,
but he also had to know and were convinced he knew
that we could still make this always rejoice program happen
because we would use the tools available to us
and he would help us and that's exactly what we did.
Next, let's take a closer look
at some additional challenges faced
once the talks were recorded.
We had the opportunity to hear
from some of the departments involved.
Brothers, how did the team adapt to the challenges?
Well, the reaction initially was we were very excited.
We love to try new things
and this was a huge opportunity to do just that.
But then as we had more meetings about it,
we found out what all was going to be involved.
We suddenly got very nervous
because we found out about all the translation
and how soon everything had to be finished.
What impact did that have?
Audio video services had never produced
an online program of this size before.
You're talking an 18-hour online regional convention
that had to be produced in a very short time.
In most years, we just translate the outlines
which are relatively easy
and then we translate all the convention videos and dramas.
But this year, the translators not only had to do
that work of translating the videos,
but they had to translate the scripts for each talk
and then arrange for recording all of those talks.
It was a tremendous amount of work.
Some of us were saying,
can we postpone it?
Can we ask for to write back and say,
brothers, please, can we do it later?
Because we just thought it is impossible to do.
The government in India had announced a complete lockdown.
So overnight,
where without our offices,
our computer equipment,
our recording studios,
the level of connectivity we would enjoy,
we felt like a carpenter
was also produced furniture
but has no access to his toolbox or his workshop.
That is a lot to contend with.
What are some unique solutions
that the teams came up with to meet those various challenges?
Well, there were amazing solutions.
One of the things that impressed me was the recording studios
that were made.
Normally, the translators go into the RTO
or the branch to do the recording,
but now they had to make hundreds of makeshift studios
in their homes.
I would translate to accomplish the work outside the branch
with the power coming in and out.
Well, the brothers would wait
and as soon as the power comes,
they would start working.
No matter what time it was,
what time was it in the day?
Our brothers were well-soddedicated
that they accomplished the work.
Very touching.
But our brothers who do sign language recordings
have to record in front of a camera.
But they also needed to have, ideally, behind them,
a background that was bright green or bright blue
so that their signing could be superimposed onto another video.
And so some brothers were able to get a cloth.
Many of our brothers painted a wall in their house
this bright, chartreuse color.
admirable ingenuity.
Thank you.
One of the most interesting solutions
was that many of the translators
around the world in different branches
would go into their car late at night
when all the noise had subsided in the neighborhood
and they would do the recording inside the car.
Thank you and everyone working with you
for being so willing to adapt.
In your opinion, what made all of this possible?
Despite a global pandemic,
despite a lockdown,
none of those things matter to Jehovah's organization.
What has shut down various other things
throughout the world
proved to be no obstacle for Jehovah
in his earthly organization.
And what a beautiful thing it is to see this program
be something that's enjoyed by everyone worldwide.
Here, despite the conditions going on in the world around us,
Jehovah's people are moving forward.
And you really see the fulfillment of Malachi 318
where it says that you will see a distinction
between those serving Jehovah and those who don't.
Everyone who had a part in this,
the thousands of brothers and sisters around the world
who had a part in bringing these convention programs
to our brothers and sisters.
They're just normal people like you and I.
But Jehovah uses normal people to accomplish incredible things.
This convention has been a landmark convention
because of the content and the beautiful theme.
But we'll also remember it for the way Jehovah
helped us to produce it in so many languages
for our brothers and sisters in the country and around the world.
Well, in translation, we like verbs.
And in Jehovah's name, there's a verb.
It causes to become.
This 2020 convention was approved
that Jehovah causes whatever he wants to become
to accomplish his purpose.
Because if there's a convention that Jehovah used
to give glory to his name, this is it.
What beautiful conviction.
Thank you, brothers.
Yes, Jehovah's Spirit helped ensure
that the work was accomplished in spite of many challenges.
But what were some of the blessings experienced
once the work was done?
Because the convention is being presented by means of video,
it's possible to pause at any time when necessary.
Just to go back a little bit to watch something
that maybe we didn't quite get.
And maybe even because sometimes our minds drift.
It's good because we can go back and rewatch it.
And in this way, we get even more benefit from the program.
I cannot imagine a convention more international than this one.
We saw how the brothers were able
to make a difficult situation turn out well.
That is, we're together.
Even if we're physically apart from each other,
we are united at this convention.
Volunteers were sent by the elders to travel
and obtain the videos due to lack of internet in our village.
We traveled about 46 kilometers on foot.
Sometimes we would leave early in the morning
or late in the evening,
even traveling at night in order to obtain the videos.
But with Jehovah's blessing,
we overcame all of these challenges.
I lost my dearest wife
about two months before the convention started.
It was cancer.
We had been married for 14 years
and she was only 47.
She was my greatest partner in Jehovah's service.
So this left me with a gaping hole.
The theme of the convention,
to always rejoice,
came just at the right time for me.
I know it was Jehovah's wonderful gift to me.
Through the convention,
I could see that Jehovah had sent all the members of the governing body
and its helpers to me personally.
I can't think of a better gift.
I really enjoyed the audio description
because I am someone who is legally blind.
And the audio description just opened up a whole new world for me.
Ben walks out of the room as his co-workers shape their heads.
So it was really amazing to have the videos being described.
And for me, I felt like I can now see what was happening.
A lot of what the audio description described
are things that I normally would have been curious about
and I would have been asking somebody to help me understand.
I had tears in my eyes
knowing that the governing body loves us this much.
I speak Korean.
I speak Japanese.
We made a Japanese section and a Korean section
like what we would have at international conventions.
In order to watch the convention simultaneously,
we would count 1, 2, 3
and start playing our videos at the same time.
This way we were able to watch and sing together.
It really felt like an international convention.
Something that I thought I would miss a lot
were the Kingdom Melodies.
So then I wondered, how is this going to work at home?
There won't be a crowd.
Everyone's singing together.
How's it going to be?
I thought I would really miss it.
But then my family and I agree to sing the Kingdom Melodies loudly.
And it worked.
I have never seen my family sing so loudly.
We have three children.
And all five of us here at home, we all got COVID-19.
And all during the time that the convention was being shown,
we were all exhibiting symptoms.
It was a really hard time.
Our family was so encouraged by the convention program this year.
My wife, Marisa, even said that to her,
it was as if the talks the brothers gave were like hearing advice from a close friend
who was sitting right next to you,
like they were right in the same room with us.
The convention is very positive.
It's contagious.
It has really touched our hearts.
I truly feel the convention has touched my heart deeply.
Both my mom and my dad, who are right now struggling
with very serious illnesses, were able to join myself,
my brother and my sister-in-law.
And we were together as a family in our living room.
We got to sing together and watch the assembly together,
which otherwise just would not have been possible.
Despite the struggles, despite the limitations that we may be in facing,
none of that has stopped Jehovah from reaching out
and even being in our own living rooms during this convention.
Jehovah transforms something that Satan is using right now to take away our joy
to something that gives us joy. Think about it.
We're watching the same spiritual program at the same time with the same speakers,
brothers from the governing body.
We never imagine that we would have this opportunity.
Okay, are we all set?
Ready whenever you are if you want to go ahead?
We are delighted that you could join us for this opening session
of the Always Rejoice Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And when everything around you is chaotic, the one thing you have is your relationship with Jehovah.
I will walk in your truth,
unifying my heart to fear your name.
But we discover something we have lost.
Joy, no matter what terror, no matter what trial may come upon us now or in the future,
we will be able to continue to rejoice in Jehovah's Acts of salvation.
While 2020 seemed to be anything but a time for rejoicing,
this year's convention proved that no matter what the circumstance we are in,
Jehovah will continue to feed us and we will continue to worship him.
Thanks to Jehovah, we experienced the truthfulness of Philippians 4-4.
But no matter the trial or difficulty, we will always rejoice in the Lord.